Title: Purpose and Decisions
Date: 11/24/2020
Category: Meta
Slug: first_post
Authors: Erik Dains
Summary: My first post explaining the purpose of my blog as well as my first decisions about my trading infrastructure.

Hi everyone! This is my first post on this blog. I intend to use this as a space to chronicle my trading adventures.

The first big step: choosing a trading platform/infrastructure. My decision is contentious, even to me.

I've decided I'm going to use [Quantconnect](https://www.quantconnect.com/) for my trading and backtesting needs. This is for several reasons.

Firstly, data is expensive and painful. I've had some experience in the past trying to create a survivorship-free equities dataset, and it's hard.
You have to deal with mergers/acquisitions, splits/dividends, spin-offs, symbol changes, bad data, the list goes on. I'm only a single person and it takes a lot of work.
It's also expensive. I'm a college student with limited resources to pay monthly fees for good data. Quantconnect goes even further with intraday data. They also have options
data, forex, and crypto. It's far more than I could ever manage or get on my own.

Next, it removes a lot of work. Again I'm only one person. I've debated creating a backtesting/trading framework from scratch. There's a lot of upsides.
As I'll explain, Quantconnect leaves a lot to be desired for the kind of analysis I'd ideally like to be doing. But at the end of the day I'd rather get something deployed,
even if it's not "optimal." I have a tendency to get stuck in perfection ruts where I end up doing nothing because I focus too hard on doing the best thing possible.
Using a preexisting platform that already manages data, backtesting, and even live trading, will save me from that. 

Lastly, live trading and product variety. With Quantonnect, I can easily deploy my strategies live with minimal extra work. They manage the servers, which I've heard are quite
reliable, and I can move on with my research. Minimal stress. Also, the ability to trade multiple products will eventually become helpful as I move to diversify my portfolio.

I think it's a good choice. With the recent death of Quantopian, they are the best option. Hopefully, with their monetization scheme, they'll be around for a while. The community
also seems nice.

With that decided, it's on to research! Coming in my next post will be my first few stratgies, which I intend to be pretty simple factor rankings.